Here is the implementation pipeline. The idea is to run offline after one network call; everything else simply reads the cached files.


1. glossary_inventory.py returns data in raw_wikitext/
2. extract_terms.py returns extracted_terms.json
2.1 merge_preambles.py accounts for the definitions that live in the preamble materials of the glossary
3. dedup_analysis.py returns extracted_terms_enriched.json and cross_glossary_terms.json
4. build_term_graph.py returns term_graph.json for visualizations
5. Visualization scripts do their thing, returns .png and .pdf objects
6. TODO (03/15/2026) fix the matching merging.py checks for the material hand-assembled from the preamble data in the glossaries, where some definitions live
CHANGED TO add_glossary.py

We fetch 36 Wikipedia math glossaries, cache wikitext, classify format and scope.

Each glossary is assigned a parser based on markup pattern. Five methods due to idiosyncrasies of wiki material: 

1. template (3,730)
2. deflist (441)
3. bold_bullet (198)
4. bare_bold (147)
5. deflist_anchor_alias (17)

Wikilinks are decomposed into target and display text, stored as structured metadata. We are flagging for: is_stub, has_math, has_disambiguation, empty_definition. These are all necessary, as Wikipedia math glossaries are not (!) consistently structured. Three categories cause most of the difficulty: definition body; preamble material; html artifacts.

The four markup formats (template, deflist, bold_bullet, bare_bold) are not interchangeable in what they surface. Template entries are the cleanest in which term and definition are explicitly delimited. Deflist and bold variants require on-site heuristic boundary detection; definition text is messy, and may bleed into prose, section transitions, or even cross-references with no reliable terminator. bare_bold assumes line-start position as the only signal, which breaks when formatting is inconsistent within a single glossary.

Some glossaries open with running prose that defines foundational terms before the structured glossary body begins. These definitions are invisible to the main parsers, which expect headword-anchored entries. They are handled separately (merge_preambles.py) via hand-curation and merged post-extraction with deduplication against the main term list. This is a manual step and will not scale to new glossaries without review.

Note: some several issues found during development: 

- html comments embedded in wikitext caused double-counting of terms (found and fixed during count verification)
- anchor aliases like `{{anchor|...}}` tags within deflist entries created a 20-term gap in the mathematical jargon glossary that required a dedicated extraction method (deflist_anchor_alias)
- LaTeX math markup (`<math>...</math>`) is preserved as-is and flagged but not parsed
- definitions heavy in notation are structurally present but semantically opaque to any later text-based processing
- parenthetical qualifiers like (algebra) or (set theory) appear inconsistently, sometimes as part of the headword, sometimes as disambiguation prose, which affects both extraction boundary detection and normalization behavior in deduplication

Terms are grouped by normalized form (lowercase, articles stripped, parentheticals removed). Cross-glossary relationships are classified: identical (threshold of >0.85 similarity), overlapping (threshold of >0.5), complementary (low similarity, different perspective), stub_vs_full. Enriched output appends this metadata to every term record.

Three edge types: definitional dependency (wikilink in definition A resolves to term B in corpus), stub cross-reference (\"see X\" stubs), cross-glossary identity (same normalized term resolving to distinct nodes due to parenthetical qualifiers, rare in practice, since most cross-glossary groups collapse to one node). Graph is sparse by construction: edges form only when a wikilink target is itself a corpus headword. Most wikilinks resolve outside the 36 glossaries and produce isolates.

Degree distribution (on a log-log scatter), cross-area edge density heatmap, edge type composition (global and per-area), component size distribution, five network plots: top-k degree backbone; per-area subgraph; ego network; full plate of spaghetti.

Consider the merging.py: reconciles the extracted term list against our compiled spreadsheet for the project. Normalize both sides (lowercase, accent-stripped, whitespace-collapsed), repair Mac Roman mojibake, append unmatched terms as new rows, flag encoding-repaired entries. Note: assumes both inputs are xlsx.

Visualization scripts are static and do not scale well for dense areas. Deduplication normalization is blunt: parenthetical stripping causes false collisions. Graph sparsity limits the utility of graph-based pair sampling.

TODO: fix this. CHANGED TO add_glossary.py
Some results of after using merging:

Original rows:         38001
Extracted terms:       4533
Matched:               1359
Unmatched (appended):  2563
  encoding-repaired:   177
Final rows:            40564

Some terms not contained in the group's documentation are worthwhile. I advise a human audit over these terms. There are many names that are part of terms in the glossary, which should be checked. See the unmatched_report of such items.

